[Back to the overview](overview.md)

# Question 11: Any suggestions for how to improve the Recipe Timeline?

> Generally not used. Maybe could prompt to add to timeline after a recipe has been open for x amount of time but probably not useful. I was surprised that timeline comments are different from recipe comments so maybe making that clearer would be helpful?

> For me the timeline itself isn't that interesting, but I would love to be able to use the data in other ways. For example, I want to know how many times I've made a recipe, which recipes do I make the most or the least, etc.

> Scaling ingrediants is my biggest ask overall ofr sure

> It's not accuraten

> Maybe a way to import instagram recipe's (usually in the description of the video)

> maybe adding a comment together with the picture

> I like the timeline as it is right now but the only change I would make is to be able to add a picture after I have marked a recipe as done. Currently, I can only add a picture at the moment I mark the recipe and not after in an edit. I would also like to be able to press the photos to enlarge them.

> Instead of just the profile picture. Also add the name of the user. If there's multiple people who didn't set a profile picture, it's hard to tell who created that timeline event. Example: Recipe creation

> I didn't know it existed

> Not really, but I use it often

> default to reverse chronological order

> Make it easier to rate dishes and add comments directly from timeline

> Add the person's name without having to hover over their non-existent or too small to tell who it is photo.

> Again, really cool feature. I wonder if comments from the time line should appear as recipe comments. As most of the time I suggest things to myself as a part of recording that I've cooked the meal. Also being able to search the time line would be really cool.

> Its fine how it is.

> Make the pictures in the timeline bigger so that I can show off to my friends what dishes I have made

> disable it option

> I honestly don't use it. Haven't found a work flow for it.

> I am not sure what the purpose of this is...

> It seems good so far :)

> I don't see much sense in it, feel free to drop it.

> An option to automatically mark recipes in the meal planner as completed - forgetting to do this on most recipes in the meal planner makes the timeline mostly useless.

> Reverse the order so newer things are first (or at least make an option).

> Allow editing the date made. If a meal is made the day before or after it appears in the meal planner then the timeline will be wrong but can't be easily fixed.

> I don't need or use it

> I generally don't care when I added a recipe, just when I last cooked a recipe.

> We don't use the feature.

> I do not use this feature.

> we don't really use it

> Nope I think its fine the way it is.

> Never used it

> Be able to filter for “meals made” or “recipes created”.

> I only use this passively, but interesting to have, no notes.

> no, i don't use it

> Whilst I do use it, I do not use it consistently enough to be able to validly comment

> I'm still getting used to the timeline. Currently it seems like recipes appear on the timeline when I haven't cooked them yet, but I think I'm still getting used to how it interacts with the meal planner. Not sure if there's an issue there or not.

> this a cool side feature for me. love it but functionality is completely sufficent

> Do not use

> Not exactly timeline, sorry, but how about including in a recipe page how many times a recipe has been cooked

> Assume recipes on the Meal Planner were made, so they automatically also appear on the timeline after the meal planner date passes. Better search and filtering options. For example, what did we have last Valentines day? What was that potato dish we made last month? Being able to easily search for that type of stuff would be amazing.

> I haven't found the option to remove the creation of a recipe from the timeline. This would be useful if I could filter them out

> i dont see a need for the timeline

> Maybe being able to update the date? I entered a wrong date and couldn't update it (or didn't find a way to do it!).

> Not really, its a simple function.

> My only irritation with the timeline is that it doesn't show the name of who added a recipe, it only shows a picture. I have 1 user that refuses to update it with his picture.

> Just upgraded to 2.0 and I love this! I wish there was a way to edit the metadata on the recipes to show when they were actually added, in stead of just all imported on the one day that I upgraded

> Improve presentation, scale things down, make things interactive, provide more information (when hovering or clicking), improve loading time. I do not have found a use case for this feature but it feels like something that has potential

> For me, the recipe timeline is more important than the comments. And yet, it is not visible unless I click on a button. It would be nice to have an option for the recipe timeline to be shown directly in the recipe page.

> Could it be auto populated based on meal plan? I always forget to click "I made this"

> Smaller list view option for mobile

> One entry uses up a lot of screen space. I would decrease the size of an entry drastically. Also the image within an entry card looks a bit like an afterthought. I would move the user icon somewhere to the right an let the image got from top to bottom and have no border to the left.

> its nice, but in the time you collect new recipes, xou have only the dates from the creating

> Multiple images per recipe.

> Never used it.

> Build a mini timeline into the recipe page to see "committ history" (but for meals made haha)

> Option to hide, it isn't a feature we use.

> never use

> Keeps adding recipe as if "made", when in fact I have not yet made them. Maybe because I have it in my meal plan, but sometimes my meal plan changes...

> I would like that recipe timeline events would also show directly (without having to click on it and navigate away) on the recipe page itself. I.e., it could be shown as a comment? That would be really nice

> We never used the timeline at all.

> A way I would use it more often maybe is when at the end of a recipe there would be another button to say "I made it". Sometimes I just forget, especially when it's on the phone :)

> Recipe Timeline is not important to me. I use Mealie purely as recipe storage.

> Better integration with Home Assistant

> Faster loading times - never use it because it tends to be really slow

> It is difficult to use if I don't stick to my meal plan, which happens regularly. It would be great if I could go backwards in the meal planner with a button like "-1 week". That way, I would get a better overview of what I had as meals. Before I started to use the mealie mealplanner for the HassIO Integration, I used miro with virtual post-its for 2 years. So I was able to just scroll up and see what was for dinner 5 weeks ago and get some inspiration.

> Different view options would be nice. The alternating left/right orientation of posts is not as nice as a simple linear feed style timeline IMO

> More compact flow options

> Add an on behalf of function when adding recipes to the timeline

[Back to the overview](overview.md) or [On to Question 12](q12.md)